BALANCE IS

Ensuring that the game is challenging and enjoyable for all players,
regardless of their ability at the game. This means that a Balancer must have
a reasonably in-depth knowledge of the game and how players of different
ability levels perceive the level of interest and difficulty.

Sid Meier once said, "A game is a collection of interesting choices". This
can be applied to Balance in the sense that if one particular class, guild,
weapon, armour, item, npc, etc is the best, then the player does not have an
interesting choice to make. Blurring the distinction of what is the best
(by making something suitable for certain situations and weaker in others)
gives players interesting choices to make. It also gives them the opportunity
to debate the merits of various choices and experiment with different
combinations, etc, etc.

Balance is a dynamic concept, since new content is continuously added to the
game. It is best to keep some stability for the players by modifying the new
content rather than adjusting the existing content, where possible. It is
better to hold up an almost-approved project to get the balance right than to
implement it, then downgrade it. Players don't like this and downgrades of
implemented content should be avoided where possible.


PRACTICAL DETAILS

The Balance Arch is ultimately responsible for the Balance committee. The
Arch handles the approving of concepts (where a wizard discusses their idea
before writing the world.info) and world.infos (where a member of World
requests that Balance looks at a world.info before it is approved). The Arch
leads internal Balance discussion on policy changes and is responsible for
the appointment, training and retiring of committee members. The Arch is also
responsible for ensuring that there is someone available to take over as Arch
on a temporary or permanent basis. The Arch is also responsible for the
maintenance and improvement of the applicable mudlib and domain code related
to Balance (e.g. the Balance daemon and the /d/Balance/ code) and all Balance
documentation (these tasks can be delegated). The Arch is the final word on
all decisions relating to Balance, though the committee members have the
right and the obligation to speak with other members of the Senate should
they have concerns over the Arch's judgement.

The Final Approvers consist of the Arch and all members of the Balance
committee that the Arch has appointed as Final Approvers. A Final Approver
has the ability to give Balance approval to a project in the queue (i.e. they
'bapprove' the project), and has the responsibility to only give said
approval when they have reviewed the project in question. Final Approvers
also have the authority to reject a project.

All other members of the Balance committee are considered to be Assistants,
being trained and gathering experience so that the Arch can appoint them as
Final Approvers. On first appointment to the Balance committee, an Assistant
drafts a review and has it checked over by a Final Approver before returning
the project. When an Assistant can no longer find any more issues with a
project, he or she 'approves' it and passes the project to 'Final'. A Final
Approver will then review the project as normal, providing helpful comments
to the Assistant on the Assistant's reviews and any issues still remaining in
the project. The Final Approver will provide recommendations to the Arch on a
particular Assistant's progression and suitability for appointment as a Final
Approver. Assistants can recommend to a Final Approver that a project be
rejected.

All Balance members should make use of the Balance board and line for queries
and other communication.
