Treasure is defined as anything that a player can obtain in an area.
Specifically, we are talking about anything NOT found on a monster's corpse.
This treasure can be obtained by searching rooms, given as a reward for
doing an action/quest/miniquest, or any other way a creator can design.

The maximum value of all free treasure in a creator-sized area is 600 coins.
For smaller or larger areas, discuss specific amounts with your balancer.
Please do not feel that you have to have the maximum amount, as you will have
to justify the items in your area.

Balance frowns upon a high amount of gold coins found in an area. We prefer
equipment and other objects, which have weight.

This treasure should not be lying in a room, but hidden with a player
needing ability checks/requirements to find it.

Other points:
 - If a player finds something by searching for it, check to be sure the
   player can carry the item's weight before moving it to the player.
 - If a player finds something by searching for it, make sure you have a
   variable in the code that only lets the player find it once a reset. The
   reverse of that is also sometimes a problem: make sure the item does reset
   and isn't only obtainable once a reboot.
 - Make sure any hidden money or items are properly guarded. We will not
   approve of a room with 1000 gold hidden behind a rug where the player is
   able to just walk in and find it. In addition, remember if a monster
   guards it, it will be considered part of that monster's treasure and needs
   to follow the above guidelines.


Should I give my monster gold?
-----------------------------

When trying to decide what to give your monster, keep this in mind:
 - gold weighs nothing on a player.
 - players will become overloaded and need help carrying, therefore
   encouraging player interaction.
 - more objects to be sold to other players through shops.
 - more variety of equipment in the game, which can help with raising skills
   that need a variety of easy through to difficult weapons, for example.

In addition, before you start giving out gold on every monster, think about
it. Would a snake really carry gold on his corpse? Would a dragon? If you
insist on an animal having gold treasure, make him guard a chest or something
similar. Neither Balance nor World will accept unrealistic rewards.



The Balance Team.
