SYNOPSIS
There are many different ways you can get started coding as there are lots of
programs out there nowadays to use. Below is a guide on how to get started
with the recommended setup of having an FTP client and offline code editor,
so that you can edit files in a modern editor and then upload them via FTP to
Ancient Anguish, rather than trying to use the more cumbersome in-game code
editor.

The first few steps outline how to download and setup the FTP client and the
offline code editor, and then in the later half it is tips and tricks for
changing the preferences in the code editor that affect the formatting of
your code.

You can use whichever FTP client and code editor you prefer, but this guide
will focus on FileZilla and Notepad++ since they are popular, and even if you
do not use these two programs most of the settings and preferences
information still apply and you should figure out the equivalent settings in
whatever program you do use.

EXAMPLE
FTP Step 1: download an FTP client, such as "FileZilla" and install it.

FTP Step 2: go into the site manager and add a new site for Ancient Anguish
with the host name "anguish.org" and use port "3001". Then in the user text
box put your wizard's name, and for the password text box use your in-game
wizard password. Now you can connect to the Ancient Anguish FTP server and it
will automatically show you your personal wizard directory of /w/wizardname/
and you can now drag and drop files to this and see them in-game.

Editor Step 1: download an offline code editor, such as "Notepad++" and
install it.

Editor Step 2: in the Notepad++ settings, go to preferences and then editing
and change the "vertical edge settings" to be "77" which will add a line that
runs up and down on your pages showing you where the right margin is so that
you don't write code outside of it. All text must wrap at 77 characters in
Ancient Anguish or it causes problems for a number of telnet clients.

Editor Step 3: in the Notepad++ settings, go to preferences and then new
document and change the "format (line ending)" to be "Unix (lf)". This is
necessary because carriage returns characters can negatively affect in-game
viewing of code due to the way they are converted.

Editor Step 4: in the Notepad++ settings, go to preferences and then language
and change the "tab settings" to be "tab size 2" and also select the "replace
by space." This is necessary because tab characters can negatively affect
in-game viewing of code due to the way they are converted.

Editor Trick: in Notepad++ you can quickly eliminate all "trailing
whitespace" in a document by pressing alt+shift+s and it will remove
whitespace and then save the file.

SEE ALSO
'man qc'
