SYNOPSIS
The formatting of a file is not just there for cosmetic reasons, it helps to
create a flow that makes things easier for reviewers to read through. If
everyone were to use their own style it slows down the review process because
it takes additional time and effort to readjust to every coder's unique
style. By having everyone do things similarly it streamlines the process
which means faster returns on your projects, and that also means everyone
else waiting in line gets their turn sooner too.

Below are the approaches that QC would like everyone to use on projects so
that we can more easily and quickly review your project.

EXAMPLE
Wrapping: the game has a 77 character limit that must be adhered to. When
typing out something like an add_item or description you must utilize all
available whitespace on each line until you reach the 77 character limit and
then perform a soft break over to the next line. Do not prematurely wrap
arbitrarily, do not exceed 77 characters total per line, and do not hard
break in the middle of a word. Lining up the code on the left side at the
quotes keeps the associated text together which makes it easier to read.

  set_long("This rat is massive, and it stares at you intently with its "
           "sharp teeth, and long tail. The black, matted fur of its body "
           "shimmers occasionally in the light while it moves quickly about "
           "the room in a frantic manner.");

Indenting/Braces: 2 space characters is the preferred choice for indenting
blocks of logic. In addition, condensed braces are the preferred method
because it reduces the number of lines of code to a minimum which makes each
file shorter and easier to jump back and forth between while reviewing and
debugging. If you use the 'tab' button on your keyboard you must also change
your editor's preferences to "replace tabs with spaces" or the equivalent
feature of your editor. This is necessary because tabs display with different
lengths on a variety of editors and cause confusion.

void some_function() {
  if(something) {
    do_something;
  } else {
    do_something_else;
  }
}

SEE ALSO
'man qc'
