SYNOPSIS
If you would like to make an improvement/bug fix to some code that is already
installed into the game (projects accessible by mortals), whether it is your
own code or someone else's, then follow the steps outlined below.

EXAMPLE
Your Code: you can find bugs, typos, ideas, and praises that mortals have
submitted using those in-game commands by checking /w/wizardname/log/ for
those files.

If the issue is a simple bug or typo then you can get any arch to proofread
your changes and then with their approval proceed with installing the update.
Be aware that all changes are logged and trying to sneak in unapproved tweaks
can result in consequences.

If the change is complicated or could result in big changes to the mortal
experience, such as altering a monster's stats, or the stats on a weapon or
armour, you must officially submit the fix as a project to Quality Control
with proper documentation of what is changing and why or at least contact
them first and see how you should handle the change.

Not Your Code: check to see if the author is still active and then speak with
them first about the issue. If they would like to fix it themselves let them,
or if they are okay with you doing it then that is fine too, so long as you
get permission first and follow the proper steps as if it were your own code.
This communication is important because a coder might be maintaining their
code offline and when they go to upload in the future it may overwrite and
undo whatever changes were made so that needs to be taken into consideration.

If the author is refusing to make a change, and the issue is a bug or
something that is negatively affecting mortals and/or unintended then speak
to the Quality Control Arch about the issue.

If the author is inactive then some special rules apply. First, check if the
coder has a will in their directory and what it says, and be mindful of that.
Next, put the fix together with the relevant information files and submit it
as a project to the queue.

Huge changes, such as revamping or replacing an entire area will require
special approval from the Senate.

If you are in doubt or have any questions please ask the Quality Control Arch
before attempting to proceed with changes that might have repercussions or
are large in scope, even if they are necessary changes.

SEE ALSO
'man qc'
