SYNOPSIS
The four major departments that oversee projects are World, Quality Control,
Balance, and Map. If you have questions you can mail those departments using
'mail <world/qc/balance/map>' respectively, and a team member will reply.

A brief summary of each department's responsibilities is as follows:

The purpose of the World department is to make sure that the game's overall
theme is maintained, and to create a cohesive and consistent theme that is
free of cliches or otherwise undesirable features.

The purpose of the Quality Control department is to make sure that the
project's overall mortal usability is bug-free, and provides a highly
polished experience that behaves in a way a player would expect.

The purpose of the Balance department is to make sure that the project's
monsters and objects of all types are both reasonable for the level and
difficulty of the area, and also consistent with the established guidelines.

The purpose of the Map department is to make sure the layout of the landscape
around the continents is cohesive and consistent, and fits the game's theme.

EXAMPLE
The following explains how to plan a project from start to finish.

If you were designing a new creator-sized area, the first thing you need to
do is create a World Info document (labeled as world.areaname.info) which is
explained in the World documents folders. Essentially you are putting
together a backstory, planning out the area, and creating a proposal to then
get feedback and pre-approval. Then after you get pre-approval you can begin
coding. To submit your document, head over to Atlas, the World clerk.

The second thing to do before starting to code anything at all is to read all
of the Quality Control guides and examples on how to create standardized
code. It is much easier and faster to code a project with the standards in
mind, than it is to go back and fix everything later on. Skipping this step
and ignoring the standards will create a ton of unnecessary work for both the
coder and the Quality Control reviewer.

The third thing to do after the entire area has been put together is to
thoroughly playtest it as if you were a mortal that knows nothing about your
project and has never been to the area before. Try to manipulate everything
in every room, using all 7 senses, and then also check for spelling errors
and grammatical mistakes and fix them as you come across them. Once you feel
that your area is as good as you can make it, and you no longer see any
issues, then it is time to read the Quality Control guides and examples again
and see if all of those requirements have been met. If everything looks good
then head over to the submissions clerk and submit your project.

From here the World, Quality Control, and Balance teams will take over and
begin reviewing the project. Once they have finished their reviews they will
comment on the project and give you a return (usually in order, with World
first), which will likely include things that they found which need to be
fixed. Fix everything on the list and add a comment on each issue saying that
it was fixed or add relevant information and then resubmit the project and
include a .reply file for the return. If there is something you disagree with
then you can speak to your reviewer and if it cannot be resolved there then
the next step would be seeking the Arch of the department to get their input.
If you cannot find a resolution then you need to find a way to compromise so
that the project can move forward.

After everything has been fixed, the teams have given their stamp of
approval, then the project will move onto Map and it will be installed into
the game at a specific coordinate, and then mortals will be able to find and
explore your project!

Once your project is installed the final thing you should do is to add your
area to the Map-Book, and then post your area's World Information to the
History Library. Then all that is left to do is watch the mortal chat lines,
bugs/suggestion boards, and your wizard log to see if there are any problems
with your area that mortals are finding and see if you can fix those things.

Some other events that will occur or need to be performed are as follows:
- Add an entry about the area into /doc/helpdir/newstuff.
- Make a post on the announcement board.
- Perform a World Shout about the expansion after installation.
- Promotion of wizard to Creator status if relevant, and 'help credits'.

SEE ALSO
'man qc'
