SYNOPSIS:
  The traditional and primary function of the apprentice path to full
  wizardhood is to make sure they are ready for what lies beyond. It is
  essential to have an understanding of our programming language, our
  approval system and our rules for wizards before they are given access
  to a multitude of tools and powers.

  Some might be able to demonstrate this understanding soon after ascension
  to Apprentice level, while others may require additional time and
  guidance.

  In order for an Apprentice to become a full Wizard, they must find a
  Sponsor.  A Sponsor is an immortal of Creator level or above who has
  experience with what it takes to get a new project created and ushered
  through the approval process into the game.

INFORMATIONAL:

  A. Sponsorship

    1. An Apprentice talks to an active level 750+ ("Presponsor"). The
       Presponsor shall explain the path forward and make sure the
       Apprentice understands this document. The Presponsor shall acquaint
       themselves with the new Apprentice and their current level of
       understanding of what it is to be a Wizard. The Presponsor shall not
       also act as Sponsor for the same Apprentice.
    2. The Apprentice should attempt to find a Sponsor (level 600+)
       as soon as they feel comfortable and settled.
    3. The Presponsor decides, with assistance from the Apprentice's chosen
       Sponsor, when the Apprentice is ready to assume the responsibilities
       of full wizardhood.
    4. The Presponsor pre-sponsors the Apprentice.
    5. The Apprentice is promoted to Full Wizard once the Sponsor accepts.

  To prove they are ready for Full Wizard status, an Apprentice must
  demonstrate an adequate understanding of how to code, our coding
  standards and our rules.

  The Presponsor shall ask the Apprentice to demonstrate this by a variety of
  tasks including coding some non-trivial part of the idea(s) the Apprentice 
  wishes to bring to fruition.

SEE ALSO:
  creator, senior_creator, sponsoring, sponsor_choosing, presponsor, 
  prior_wizards, wizard, wizardlist
