How do you get an area opened on Ancient Anguish?
 
There are four major steps in getting an area opened:
     1. World (mail world)
     2. Balance (mail balance)
     3. QC (mail qc)
     4. Map (mail map)
 
You should send email to all four groups, but only after ALL of the
items in the four paragraphs below have been addressed.  You can send
mail to all of them at relatively the same time, except for World
which should be mailed long before the others, preferably before you
even start the real coding.
 
Please note that a tool has been developed to help speed up the process
of approval by automation. There is a submissions room with a clerk, who
keeps track of all the projects and thier current status. In addition to
mailing the aforementioned groups, you should also submit your project
with the clerk.


World is responsible for the coordination of the AA world itself and
for the logic within it. This includes theme, history and settings in 
big terms. World works very close to Map, making sure that there is 
place for your area in the world BEFORE you start coding it. World 
will probably have some small opinions and suggestions concearning
your area and should therefore be contacted as soon as you know you 
will be coding an idea and know more or less what it is. As an 
example it would be very sad if you should code a 70 rooms area with
everything in them just to get a 'No, it doesn't fit into AA's theme.'
by World. Another example of where World comes in handy is locating
possible places before you've finished your code. Lets say you've 
coded a castle, with windows at north and east. You've coded it so 
that when someone looks out through a northern window, they see a
beautfil lake and when looking out through an eastern window they
see a small mountain. Only problem is, that there is no such place
available on the Map and you have to recode all your rooms with 
windows. If you had mailed World from the beginning World would've
checked with Map and suggested appropriate locations and views
from the windows. World wants to get a path to a document file
briefly describing your area/idea, including theme and history, 
and the kind of place you want it located at. It could be enough 
with seven or eight lines, but it is of course the better the more 
detailed the description is. What you should think of is stay 
within AA's theme - Medeival Fantasy - and to avoid names and 
plots from well-known books, stories, movies or games. Reading
the files /doc/world and /doc/map/world will give you some more 
information concerning our world. The file /doc/world/World.Concept
will give the necessary information to create the file which 
path you should mail World.

Balance is responsible for making sure that your area does not upset
the balance of the mud by introducing powerful weapons, strong armour,
or too much money into the game.  These things are fine in moderation,
but you don't, for example, want to give a level 2 monster a sword
with weapon class 20 and 5000 coins so that any player can walk in and
get the stuff with little or no danger of being killed and without even
having to drink a beer.  A file should be prepared detailing the monsters
weapons, and armours that can be found in your area.  The monsters section
should have armour class, weapon class, level, money, alignment and any
other pertinent information.  The file should also have all the weapons
in your area and their weapon class, parry class, and value.  The list of
armours should include armour class of all body parts and its value.  Any
special magical powers or abilities that either the monsters, weapons,
armours, or any other objects in your area should be listed as well.  The
document should be named INFO.BALANCE and found in the sub-directory
containing your area.  Any VERY good items should be unique.  For more
info concerning the balance process and what is expected read:
/doc/build/balance.
 
QC is responsible for many things; spelling, grammar, plot, coding style,
bugs, finding bugs, making sure that your descriptions are clear
and interesting, that all items are described (add_item) and that it
explains why you can't get an un-gettable item (add_noget), making sure
that all rooms inherit a baseroom that includes query_x_coord and
query_y_coord functions that allow the maps to work.  Areas should have
a plot or story and should have lots of fun things to do and see.  Things
to search for, smell, hear, touch, and other functions that can be added
all add to the story and how fun an area is.  Areas should not be just
a series of rooms where you can just walk in, kill, and walk out.  Think
of them as mini-quests that have a goal or story.  The goal may be getting
some healing potions, money, or a good weapon or armour.  Remember real
good armours and weapons should be coded as uniques.  QC currently has a 3
tiered system; starter, finisher and reviewer.  The starter will check
your area for coding style, spelling, grammar, theme, and plot.  The
finisher will briefly check for the same things, but also check for bugs.
Making sure that all the functions work as they are supposed to, making
sure that all the entrances and exits work, that the items weights are
added and subtracted from a players carry correctly when they are gotten
or dropped.  Check out any non-standard functions.  After passing these
two steps the area goes to the reviewer.  The area should be ready to be
opened at this time or nearly ready.  The reviewer should just look it
over and maybe suggest a few things to polish it up.  At any stage the
area could be bounced back to a lower step or out of QC altogether.  AA
has a high standard and will not open inferior areas to mortals.  QC is
not a de-typoing and grammar checking service.  The area should be
relatively free from these types of errors before you mail QC.  If english
is your second language you might want to have a few friends run through
the area.  QC will also be happy to take a quick unofficial look at the
area after you have some of the area done just to see if you are on the
right track.  If the starter feels that the area is not ready to be
considered by QC you will be told what needs to be fixed before you can
resubmit a second time.  Remember QC is a long time consuming process,
especially if you have not done your work properly.  At any one time QC
is usually reviewing 10-20 areas in various stages, you are not the only
wizard on the mud with an area to be approved.  Another excellent help
file was written by Devlin and can be found in this directory, it is
called creation.
 
Map is responsible for assigning a position on the map and
reviewing the documentation of the area that explains the plot, looks,
history, special features and difficulty (low, mid or high level) of the
area.  The document describing your area should be located in the same
sub-directory as the area files and called: WORLD.INFO.  Before
contacting Map you should scout the mud in search of an open space on
the map that suits your area.  Don't have just one spot in mind pick 2
or 3 and list them in order of preference.  If you have contacted 
World correctly, you may already have a spot reserved with Map.  The 
more sparsely the immediate area is populated with existing areas, the 
more likely your first spot will be approved.  Don't expect your area 
to be adjacent to the main village or Nepeth, as these areas are pretty 
well populated. To the north and west of Hobbitat there are vast areas 
of unpopulated forest and mountains begging to be developed, and there is
a vast expanse of open map of various landscape types in the south of
the realm.  When you and Map have agreed on a location, Map will implement
it and your area will be part of the Ancient Anguish World!

When all this is done there are two things left for you to do. First
add your area in the Map-book lying at the Planners Board and then
post your area's history on the History Board (up from the Planners 
Board) together with the other histories on Ancient Anguish.


Pretty simple huh?  That is all there is to it...
 
 

First version: Feb 23 1994
First revision: Dec 8 1995
